# Internal Data Sharing Agreement
State of __________________________
City of __________________________


 
## Requester
	Department Name:
	User Name:
	Title:
	Email:
	Phone: 

## Data Provider
	Department Name:
	Data Custodian:
	Title:
	Email:
	Phone:
 
Whereas, the City is interested in exploring and developing an integrated set of solutions for the intelligent and integrated management of the urban area and the services provided by it.

Whereas, the City has a network of sensors that is being used to collect different types of data, and recognizes that the collected data can be used between different city departments to: 
-	Improve client outcomes
-	Increase the reliability of data
-	Improve integration of client services
-	Promote a client-centric approach to service delivery
-	Improve accessibility and management of information
-	Improve program effectiveness, performance, and accountability

Whereas, the City recognizes that when dealing with personally identifiable information, citizens have a right to be given notice, choice, access, and security to their personally identifiable information before it can be made public. 

## I.	Purpose

[In this section, both parties must state in non-technical language the purpose(s) for which they are entering into the agreement, i.e., how the data will be used, what studies will be performed, or what the desired outcomes are perceived to be as a result of obtaining the data. The source of the data will come from one of the aforementioned sources.]

## II.	Description of Data

[In this section, the parties provide specific detailed information concerning the data to be shared or exchanged.]

## III.	Method of Access or Transfer

[In this section, a description of the method of data access or transfer will be provided. If encrypted identifiable information is transferred electronically through means such as the Internet, then said transmissions will be consistent with the rules and standards promulgated by Federal statutory requirements regarding the electronic transmission of identifiable information.]

## IV.	Provider Obligations

The parties agree that the {Office of Provider} will be designated as “Provider” of the file(s). The {Office of Provider} will be responsible for the observance of all conditions for use and the establishment and maintenance of security agreements to prevent unauthorized use of the data requested by the User. The Provider shall establish appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the confidentiality of the data and to prevent unauthorized use or access to it. 

## V.	User Obligations
 
User acknowledges the personal or confidential nature of the information and agrees that their staff and contractors with access shall comply with all laws, regulations, and policies that apply to protection of the confidentiality of the data. The User shall not disclose, release, reveal, show, sell, rent, lease, loan, or otherwise grant access to the data covered by this agreement to any person without first having approval granted by {Office of Provider}.

If data provided under this Agreement is to be shared with a subcontractor, the contract with the subcontractor must include all of the data security provisions within this Agreement and within any amendments, attachments, or exhibits within this Agreement. If the Contractor cannot protect the data as articulated within this Agreement, then the Contract with the subcontractor must be submitted to the {Office of Provider} for review and approval.

## VI.	Confidentiality

Access to the data covered by this agreement shall be limited to the minimum number of individuals necessary to achieve the purpose stated in the section and to those individuals on a need-to-know basis only. Any summary results, however, can be shared. Summary results are those items that cannot be used to identify any individual. It should be noted that the stripping of an individual’s name or individual identification number does not preclude the identification of that individual, and therefore is not sufficient to protect the confidentiality of individual data.

## VII.	Disposition of Data

Any information or summary results that are generated by the City from the use of such data may be subject to a Freedom of Information Act request, in which case the City will have certain legal duties to release such requested information. The User and its agents will ensure that when the project is complete, the User will:
1.	Return the data to the Provider if possible, or
2.	Retain the data in compliance with all applicable document retention laws.

## VIII.	Signatures

 
Data User: 
Title:
Department Name:


_________________________________________

Data Provider:
Title:
Department Name:


_________________________________________
 

